URL: https://elevenlabs.io/eleven-music-api
Fetched: 2026-09-02
Method: curl
Raw bytes:   703746
----
Eleven Music API - Studio-Grade AI Music Generation &)]:tw-overflow-x-hidden"> 
 Skip to content 
 Products
 Solutions
 Customers
 Resources
 Enterprise
 Pricing
 Log in Sign up 
 Contact sales Log in 
 Sign up 
 Eleven Music API
 Studio-grade AI music generation for your products
 Get API key View docs 
 Generate custom tracks from text prompts with full control over genre, mood, structure, and duration. Built in partnership with artists, labels, and publishers. Available for broad commercial use.
 Music API
 Create music from a single prompt
 import { ElevenLabsClient } from "@elevenlabs/elevenlabs-js" ; 
 const elevenlabs = new ElevenLabsClient(); 
 const track = await elevenlabs.music.compose({ 
 prompt: " A fast-paced electronic track for a high-adrenaline video game " , 
 musicLengthMs: 30_000 , 
 modelId: "music_v2" , 
 }); 
 TypeScript
 TypeScript Python 
 Run Run code 
 Get API Key 
 Synthesia
 Meta
 Perplexity
 Twilio
 Lovable
 Research-led music generation, built for commercial use
 Get API key Read licensing terms 
 Eleven Music is trained on licensed stems and music, designed from the start for broad commercial use. Studio-grade audio output without the complexity of traditional music licensing. Commercial rights vary by subscription tier.
 Self-Serve 
 For individuals and small teams building with the Music API 
 Pay as you go API access 
 Up to 6,600 min/month generation 
 Broad commercial use online and offline 
 Streaming, stems, timestamps, and editing 
 Get started 
 Enterprise 
 For organizations building music into products at scale 
 All media rights incl. film, TV, games 
 Volume-based pricing 
 10+ concurrent generations 
 Custom attribution and co-branding 
 Contact sales 
 Everything you need to build with AI music
 Generate and control music programmatically - from one-shot tracks to section-level composition integrated into your product.
 Prompt-driven composition
 Generate complete tracks from a single text prompt. Control genre, mood, structure, and instrumentation with natural language - Eleven Music interprets complex, multi-layered prompts with nuance.
 Section-by-section control
 Go beyond one-shot generations. Use composition plans to define intros, verses, choruses, and outros with independent styles, lyrics, and durations per section.
 Streaming generation
 Stream music in real time for interactive experiences. Ideal for dynamic scoring in games, live creative tools, and media applications.
 Licensed and cleared for commercial use
 Created in collaboration with labels, publishers, and artists. All generated music is available for broad commercial use. No complex licensing to manage.
 Built for modern media and interactive products
 Cinematic scores
 Corporate music
 Game soundtracks
 Match any mood
 Multilingual vocals
 Cinematic scores
 Orchestral
 Epic
 Triumphant
 Fantasy
 Prompt
 A rich orchestral track, deeply cinematic, symphonic strings, brass and woodwinds, an epic fantasy, triumphant, jubilant, crescendo, finale.
 Powering world-class products and brands
 :focus-visible]:tw-outline-focus tw-rounded-sm"> 
 “Sonic Hub just got a game-changing upgrade: With Eleven Music, we're supercharging our audio operating system for brands, agencies and creators, fusing our deep expertise in understanding and coding the sound of a brand with Eleven Music's unparalleled quality of execution in AI music creation. Get ready for a new industry benchmark!” 
 “From dubbing Reels in local languages, to generating music and character voices in Horizon, ElevenLabs platform enables global creators, businesses, and enterprises to build with voice, music, and sound at scale.” 
 “ElevenLabs made it easy for us to quickly bring powerful text-to-speech capabilities to our SDK, allowing Agents to respond in real time with expressive voices to user questions or as feedback to what it's seeing.” 
 “Twilio has integrated ElevenLabs' generative AI voice technology into its CPaaS, enhancing ConversationRelay. This integration allows businesses and developers to create conversational AI voice interactions that sound human, feel expressive, and respond in real time directly from the Twilio CPaaS platform.” 
 Built for production
 Enterprise-grade security 
 Data encrypted in transit and at rest. SOC 2 and GDPR compliant. Team-level access control and API key management.
 Data encrypted in transit and at rest. SOC 2 and GDPR compliant. Team-level access control and API key management.
 Python and TypeScript SDKs 
 Official Python and TypeScript SDKs with type safety, streaming support, and clear examples. Integrate music generation into any application in minutes.
 Official Python and TypeScript SDKs with type safety, streaming support, and clear examples. Integrate music generation into any application in minutes.
 Dedicated support 
 Enterprise plans include custom workflows, integration support, dedicated account management, and custom SLAs. Priority support for production-critical applications.
 Enterprise plans include custom workflows, integration support, dedicated account management, and custom SLAs. Priority support for production-critical applications.
 Frequently asked questions
 What is the Eleven Music API?
 The Eleven Music API lets you generate high-quality, original music from text prompts. You can control genre, mood, structure, duration, and language - and integrate music generation directly into your product or workflow via POST /v1/music.
 Is music generated with the API cleared for commercial use?
 Yes. Eleven Music is trained on licensed stems and music, built in partnership with artists, labels, and publishers.. Songs are available for broad commercial use on all paid plans. Film, TV, and large studio game rights require an Enterprise plan. See the Eleven Music v1 Terms at elevenlabs.io/eleven-music-v1-terms for the full commercial rights table.
 What audio quality does the API output?
 Eleven Music generates studio-grade audio at up to 44.1 kHz. Supported output formats include MP3 (various bitrates up to 192kbps), PCM (up to 48 kHz), u-law, a-law, and Opus. High-quality downloads (PCM 44.1 kHz) are available from the Pro plan.
 How many languages are supported for vocals?
 Eleven Music supports vocals in 59 languages, with native-like quality in 11 languages including English, Portuguese, Italian, Finnish, and Greek.
 Can I control the structure of a track?
 Yes. Use a simple prompt for one-shot generation, or pass a composition_plan with individual sections - each with its own name, styles, duration, and lyrics. Sections support positive and negative style directions for fine-grained control.
 How long can generated tracks be?
 Track duration is configurable via music_length_ms, supporting lengths from 3 seconds (3,000ms) to 10 minutes (600,000ms). Individual sections within a composition plan can be 3 seconds to 2 minutes each.
 Does the API support streaming?
 Yes. Streaming generation allows real-time playback for interactive tools, games, and dynamic scoring applications.
 What is in-painting?
 In-painting lets you regenerate specific sections of an existing track while preserving the rest - using the source_from parameter in composition plans. This is currently available to enterprise clients.
 How does pricing work?
 Self-serve plans include monthly generation limits (from 11 to 4,800 minutes) and monthly download limits. Enterprise plans offer custom limits and expanded commercial rights. See the pricing page at elevenlabs.io/pricing for current plan details.
 What about copyright and licensing?
 Unlike competitors facing legal challenges, Eleven Music is built on properly licensed data. We partnered with labels, publishers, and artists to ensure all generated music is cleared for commercial use. Specific prohibited inputs (artist names, song titles, lyrics) are outlined in the Music Terms at elevenlabs.io/music-terms.
 What SDKs are available?
 Official SDKs for Python and JavaScript/TypeScript. You can also use the HTTP API directly - POST https://api.elevenlabs.io/v1/music with a JSON body.
 For more information, see the API Reference here: https://elevenlabs.io/docs/eleven-api/guides/cookbooks/music 
 Where can I find code examples and documentation?
 API reference at https://elevenlabs.io/docs/api-reference/music/compose . Guides and cookbooks at https://elevenlabs.io/docs/cookbooks/music .
 Do you offer enterprise support?
 Yes. Enterprise plans include SOC 2 compliance, GDPR support, in-painting access, 10+ finetune slots, custom co-branding terms, dedicated support, and custom SLAs.
 Latest updates
 :focus-visible]:tw-outline-focus tw-rounded-sm"> 
 Dubbing v2 is now available via ElevenAPI 
 Category ElevenAPI Date Aug 6, 2026 
 The highest-quality AI Music generator
 Talk to sales Sign up 
 English 
 ElevenCreative 
 Text to Speech 
 Speech to Text 
 Voice Changer 
 Text to Sound Effects 
 Voice Cloning 
 Voice Isolator 
 AI Music Generator 
 Studio 
 Voice Design 
 AI Voice Generator 
 AI Image Generator 
 AI Video Generator 
 Ads Engine 
 ElevenAgents 
 Voice Agents 
 Conversational AI 
 Integrations 
 Telecommunications 
 Financial Services 
 Healthcare 
 Government 
 Technology 
 Retail & E-commerce 
 Travel & Hospitality 
 Customer Support 
 Chatbots 
 ElevenAPI 
 API Reference 
 Agents API 
 Speech Engine 
 Dubbing API 
 Text to Speech API 
 Speech to Text API 
 Sound Effects API 
 Music API 
 API Key 
 Resources 
 Blog 
 Iconic Marketplace 
 Impact Program 
 Startup Grants 
 Help Center 
 Webinars 
 Docs 
 Enterprise 
 Trust Center 
 India 
 Socials 
 X ElevenLabs 
 ElevenCreative 
 Developers 
 LinkedIn ElevenLabs 
 ElevenCreative 
 GitHub 
 YouTube 
 Discord 
 TikTok 
 Instagram 
 Facebook 
 Reddit 
 Company 
 About 
 Careers 
 Safety 
 Brand & Press Kit 
 ElevenLabs Summit 
 Policies Terms 
 Privacy 
 EU Digital Services Act (DSA) 
 Modern Slavery Policy 
 CCPA Notice 
 EU-US DPF Policy 
 AI Transparency 
 Human Rights Statement 
 Cookie Settings 
 Voice chat
 Voice chat
