URL: https://www.bitwig.com/the-grid/
Fetched: 2026-09-02
Method: curl
HTTP: 200
Raw bytes: 49310
----
The Grid | Bitwig 

 Go to content 

 Bitwig Studio

 Bitwig Connect

 Learn

 Discover

 Support

 Try

 Buy

 Login

 Username / E-mail Address 

 Password 

 Login 

 Forgot your password? 

 or 

 Create your account here 

 Login 

 Login 

 What's New

 Overview

 Instruments & Effects

 The Grid

 Sound Content

 Feature List

 Circle

 What's New

 Overview

 Instruments & Effects

 The Grid

 Sound Content

 Feature List

 Circle

 Enter
 The Grid 

 Modularity has been at the core of Bitwig Studio from the beginning. Devices can be nested, clips are containers, modulators exist everywhere, and practically anything can be dragged anywhere. The Grid is the next logical step.

 The Grid is a modular sound-design environment that powers a family of devices in Bitwig Studio: Poly Grid , FX Grid and Note Grid . 
 With a vast library of modules and a supersonic workflow, you’ll be creating your own unique sounds immediately, and in high-fidelity. Simply add a Grid device to your project and start patching. It’s fun.

 Construct a polyphonic synthesizer from scratch in one session. Create an adaptive audio effect with your signature sound. Build your own quirky note sequencer.
 Experiment with generative drones until you find a new way to perform. Or simply create the undefinable. 
 Patching is effortless, giving full reign to your creativity.

 The Grid includes:

 Fully-modular sound design

 Fantastic sound quality

 230+ modules

 Any signal, connected anywhere

 Lighting-fast workflow

 4x-oversampled, polyphonic stereo signal path

 Sounds of The Grid

 A great entry point into this new world is any of the 390+ Grid factory presets spread throughout our various sound packages. Click the plus (+) button on any track or device chain, load one of The Grid devices, and try out the diverse collection of patches available. And when you find one that you like, pop the hood and check out how it works.

 Or why not start with the playlist to get a taste.

 Signal Achievements

 The technology powering The Grid is as it should be: working, felt, and transparent so you can focus on the sound. Here’s a taste of what we’ve done.

 All signals are created equal. In The Grid , all signals are interchangeable so any out port can be connected to any in port. While this is rarely the case in other programs, Bitwig Studio has made it so. Try something crazy; you (probably) won’t get electrocuted.

 Every signal is stereo. Yes, every audio cable is stereo, but so are all control signals as well. By altering any of these control signals, their corresponding audio will be affected. And plenty of modules are ready to help you Stereo-ize your signals…

 Getting more with less cords. For signals that are needed regularly, we have the option of pre-cords . These clickable icons appear beside in ports, allowing common connections to be made wirelessly. And with The Grid ’s quick workflow gestures, new modules can be dropped directly onto ports, automatically wiring them into your patch. Work smart instead of hard.

 Phase is the place. Along with pitch, timbre, and loudness, phase is another essential element of sound, capable of driving basic time functions, complex modulation synthesis, and so much more. With a dedicated category of phase modules, these concepts are freshly accessible and newly relevant for modern music production.

 Interactive Help

 Efficient workflow also means finding the information you need, when you need it. So each module in The Grid has an interactive help view that both describes every parameter on the module and allows you to keep tweaking the settings. 
 And simply selecting a module displays all incoming and outgoing signals in the Inspector Panel. The details are always at your fingertips, right when you need them.

 Audio, Notes, and Then Some

 Best of all, this new system is a completely native part of Bitwig Studio, giving you so much more to work with than audio.

 Grid devices can be nested or layered along with other devices and your plug-ins, and they are controllable from the same Open Controller API.

 Song position is available as a sample-accurate signal, locking your work in The Grid to your project’s timeline.

 Create a note-generating patch by adding as many Note Out modules as you wish, with all MIDI channels available.

 Draw Arranger or clip-based automation for any parameter in your new grid patches, even in combination with Bitwig Studio’s existing modulators.

 Modules like envelopes, LFOs, and sequencers all have modulator outputs as well. And just as Bitwig Studio’s modulators can control any parameter in The Grid , any grid signal can be used to modulate child devices.

 Your hardware modular rig is completely integrated, with dedicated grid modules for sending any control, trigger, or pitch signal as CV Out and receiving any CV In .

 That's just scratching the surface.

 Show Me The Modules

 The Grid offers some 230+ modules (and counting) for realizing your modular dreams. They are plenty diverse so here is an overview by category:

 I/O (27)

 Terminal modules for signals entering or exiting this Grid device, such as Velocity In , Audio Out , CV Pitch Out , and Note Out 
 Display (8)

 Visualization and note-taking modules, such as Oscilloscope and Spectrum 
 Phase (18)

 Modules that output wrapped phase signals, such as Phasor , Ø Scaler , and Ø Formant 
 Data (13)

 Lookup modules that are read with incoming phase signals, such as Pitches , Probabilities , and Ø Window 
 Oscillator (12)

 Periodic signal generators based on waveforms or samples, such as Pulse , Swarm , Sampler , and Wavetable 

 Random (4)

 Aperiodic and randomized signal generators, such as S/H LFO and Dice 
 LFO (5)

 Periodic low frequency oscillators, such as LFO and Transport 
 Envelope (9)

 Modules that produce or extract an envelope, often with a normaled amplifier, such as ADSR and Follower 
 Filter (14)

 Frequency-dependent amplifiers, such as Low-pass LD , SVF , and Comb 
 Shaper (15)

 Various linear and nonlinear waveshapers, such as Quantizer and Wavefolder 
 Delay/FX (10)

 Delay functions and other time-based audio FX, such as Mod Delay , Chorus+ , and All-pass Delay 

 Mix (18)

 Signal routing and mixing modules, such as Mixer , Split , and Stereo Width 
 Level (22)

 Amplitude-based functions, values, and converters, such as Attenuate , Bend , and AM/RM 
 Pitch (14)

 Modules that produce pitch values, such as Pitch Quantize and Zero Crossings 
 Math (22)

 Basic arithmetic operators, such as Subtract , MinMax , and Round 
 Logic (22)

 Comparators and other modules that output logic signals, such as Clock Divide , = , and XOR 

 Explore More

 Learn Bitwig Studio

 Getting Around In The Grid 

 The Grid is Bitwig Studio's modular sound-design environment, made for fun. Get a first glance, learn some new concepts, or just watch as we build things. Bring your ideas, and maybe some popcorn.

 Learn More 

 Learn Bitwig Studio

 Modular Concepts: Basic Modulations 

 This tutorial explores basic control signals, a core building block of patching.

 Learn More 

 Learn Bitwig Studio

 How It’s Done: Wobble Bass with Stimming 

 In his latest video, the producer started making a dub wobble and ended up with a whole track. A treasure trove of sound design and mixing wisdom.

 Learn More 

 Subscribe to our Newsletter 

 Bitwig Studio | 

 Bitwig Connect | 

 Learn | 

 Discover | 

 Support | 

 Try | 

 Buy | 

 Login | 
 Create Account 

 About Us 
 Legal / Imprint 
 Privacy Policy 
 Terms & Conditions 
 Refund Form 
 Copyright Notices 

 English 

 | 

 Deutsch 

© Bitwig GmbH 2026. All rights reserved. 

 Go to top
