URL: https://www.musicradar.com/how-to/how-to-create-a-minimal-drum-groove-in-your-daw
Fetched: 2026-09-02
Method: curl
HTTP: 200
Raw bytes: 1081562
----
Skip to main content

MusicRadar
THE NO.1 WEBSITE FOR MUSICIANS








Search

	•	
	•	Artist news 
	•	Guitars 
	•	Controllers 
	•	Drums 
	•	Keyboards & Pianos 
	•	Guitar Amps 
	•	Music Gear Reviews 
	•	Synths 
	•	Software & Apps 
	•	More 


MORE
	•	Christine McVie's masterpiece
	•	Macca vs Phil Collins
	•	Music theory tricks
	•	Kiss From a Rose
	•	95k+ free music samples
	•	Yes


	1	Tutorials Music Production Tutorials
How to create a minimal drum groove in your DAW
Tuition
By Future Music

Published 20 July 2020
Let’s use samples to build a classic minimal house-style drum pattern

Share
Share this article
Join the conversation
Add us as a preferred source on Google

Newsletter
Subscribe to our newsletter

Here's how to create a minimal house groove with samples and a few stock effects.


(Image credit: Future)
Step 1: Our minimal beat starts with a 4x4 groove at 122bpm. We use a selection of sampled drums – minimal staples of a 909 snare and closed hi-hat, with FM kick and clap sounds from the Elektron Digitone. We program kicks on each beat, hi-hats on off-beats and a clap and snare hit on two and four.

(Image credit: Future)
Step 2: We’ve compressed, EQed and added a little reverb to each sound before loading them into our Drum Rack, so they’re mostly good to go. We use Ableton Simpler’s ADSR amp envelope to tame each sound a little for that tight, punchy minimal sound we’re after. We filter the kick, snare and clap to stop their frequencies overlapping too much.

(Image credit: Future)
Step 3:To make the beat sound less straight, we nudge the snare and clap off the grid a little and play around with their velocities. We’ve also added a subtle reverb to the closed hat that gives the top end shimmer and space.


(Image credit: Future)
Step 4: Now to add a little interest. We create a second Drum Rack and add a selection of percussive found sounds – knocks, clunks, and fizzy noises. We program these to add groove around our straight hi-hats.
YOU MAY LIKE
	•	
	•	 6 steps for perfectly capturing a real drum performance in your DAW
	•	
	•	 How to replicate the sample-based sonics of a gnarly Prodigy classic
	•	
	•	 SampleRadar: 493 free hardware drum machine samples

(Image credit: Future)
Step 5: We want these found sounds to sit back in the mix but also have a little movement. To achieve that, we process the drum rack with a small amount of reverb, subtle dotted eighth note delay and an automated band-pass filter modulated by a slow LFO.

(Image credit: Future)
Step 6: Finally we create another Drum Rack containing two percussive white noise hits. We create a sparse sequence, three bars long, which will result in slightly unusual phrasing. A modulated stereo delay turns this into more of an FX sound. We turn down both our noise and found sound kits so they sit back in the mix. 
Get the MusicRadar Newsletter
Want all the hottest music and gear news, reviews, deals, features and more, direct to your inbox? Sign up here.


Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands

Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors

By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.





Future Music

Future Music is the number one magazine for today's producers. Packed with technique and technology we'll help you make great new music. All-access artist interviews, in-depth gear reviews, essential production tutorials and much more. Every marvellous monthly edition features reliable reviews of the latest and greatest hardware and software technology and techniques, unparalleled advice, in-depth interviews, sensational free samples and so much more to improve the experience and outcome of your music-making.

READ MORE

Drums
6 steps for perfectly capturing a real drum performance in your DAW


 
 

Artists
How to replicate the sample-based sonics of a gnarly Prodigy classic


 
 

Samples
SampleRadar: 493 free hardware drum machine samples


 
 

Drum Machines
The best plugins for re-creating the grit and punch of classic analogue drum machines


 
 

Drum Machines
Want crispy, retro digital drum machine sounds? Here’s our top picks of the plugin options that emulate the pioneering classics


 
 

Tech
Exploring how Harry Styles brought the sounds of minimal techno to pop with Aperture


 
 
LATEST IN MUSIC PRODUCTION TUTORIALS

Music Production Tutorials
How to use a mixing console


 
 

Artists
How to replicate Charli XCX’s sonic characteristics


 
 

Artists
How to re-create Drake’s smooth Burning Bridges sound using plugins


 
 

Artists
How to get Radiohead’s resonant National Anthem vocal effect in software


 
 

Music Production Tutorials
Build your own expressive talkbox with plugins


 
 

Artists
How to recreate the ’90s-channelling energy of a PinkPantheress banger


 
 
LATEST IN TUITION

Music Theory And Songwriting
10 music theory tricks every producer and songwriter should know


 
 

Keyboards & Pianos
Here's everything you need to know about keyboard sizes but were afraid to ask


 
 

Music Production Tutorials
How to use a mixing console


 
 

Artists
How to get Radiohead’s resonant National Anthem vocal effect in software


 
 

Music Production Tutorials
Build your own expressive talkbox with plugins


 
 

Artists
How to emulate one of Jon Hopkins' signature sonic techniques with plugins


 
 











MusicRadar is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.

Add as a preferred source on Google
	•	About Us
	•	Contact Future's experts
	•	Terms and conditions
	•	Privacy policy
	•	Cookies policy
	•	Advertise with us
	•	Accessibility Statement
	•	Careers
© Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury, Bath BA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885.


