URL: https://wotja.com/about/
Fetched: 2026-09-02
Method: curl
HTTP: 200
Raw bytes: 56284
----
About Us - Intermorphic Ltd 

 Skip to main content Skip to docs navigation 

 FREE 

 App 

 Guide 

 Music 

 Tutorials 

 News Hot news 

 Paks 
-->
 Help 

 Tips 
-->
 About 

 Contact 

 Search 
-->

 Bluesky 

 YouTube 

 FREE 

 About us

 About Us -->

 Company Details 

 History & Evolution 

 Our Trademarks 

 Our Branding 

 Our Websites 

 Credits 

 Press Resources 

 Legal & EULAs 

 Contact Us 

 Wotja Archive 

 IM App Archive 

 About Us

 Intermorphic Ltd. is the developer of Wotja .
 
 Wotja OTB IAP SUMMER SALE - Save 30% - ENDS July 31st --> 

 Intermorphic

 Intermorphic Ltd. ( IM ) was co-founded in 2007 by Tim Cole & Pete Cole . It really is just the two of us, albeit we could not do what we do without the help of some awesomely talented people .

 "Intermorphic" is a word that means "between forms". It was first used by us at SSEYO , a company we co-founded back in 1990 and where we built SSEYO Koan (see Our History ). We feel it's still apt for today as we're continuing to innovate & grow .

 It is true that the SSEYO Koan branded app may be no more, but the techniques and approaches that we pioneered in SSEYO Koan have not gone away, or been lost. They are actually deployed and expanded upon, with much, much more besides, in an even more powerful, capable and multi-platform Generative Music System that we call Wotja .

 Wotja is the App in which we have combined the techniques, heuristrics and domain knowledge that we derived from our early pioneering years in generative music together with exciting new capabilities, features and evolutions that we have been working on ever since - we have never stopped innovating!

 So we can safely say that Wotja is very much alive in 2026 and continues to be actively developed .

 Fun fact : Because Wotja has the DNA of SSEYO Koan it can even play SSEYO Koan content!

 We use the terms: Generative Music | InMo Music | Text-to-Music | Reflective Music .

 Note: intermorphic.com is now used as a documentation archive for our older and now retired apps.

 Our Goals... 

 1) To stimulate the creative in you... 

 We believe that there is a creative in everyone. This inner creative, your brain, is the greatest creative instrument of all. It is organic. It is what decodes all of what you see, read and hear and brings it alive for you. 

 Generative Music is in essence music generated by chance. You can personalise how it sounds to a greater or lesser degree, but it is what it is. To bring it alive requires your subconscious brain to see patterns and relationships that are not actually there. You brain in effect becomes an active listener and composer; it fills in the gaps. So why is that important?

 Over many millions of years the brain has evolved to interpret what happens in the world around us. Its job is to keep us alive so it pays very close attention to what is going on, whether we are consciously aware of it or not. It’s very good at discerning both patterns and randomness. It has to do that very fast, too. That’s because when a pattern is detected the brain must decide on how to interpret it, often with great urgency.

 Monitoring of important patterns e.g. "Is the lion still coming my way", "is it likely it wants to eat me" etc is of course done at the highest level.

 Anything deemed to be random can generally be subconsciously monitored. That’s because there is likely not much you can do about it and there will always be more pressing things to be concerned with.

 One of the reasons the sound of rain drops on the roof or the burbling of a stream is relaxing is because you know it is safe to subconsciously monitor it.

 Generative music can be like that bubbling stream. Your brain knows it is inherently random so it monitors it subsconsciously. However, your brain is also a pattern matching machine so it does a bit of overtime. It finds relationships between notes and sounds and constructs its own narrative around them. This is one of the ways we stimulate the creative in you.

 Generative music can also include patterns. These patterns can repeat or even mutate. They can be user entered or generated at random. They can provide a kind of quasi-framework or skeleton for the rest of the notes to form around. One of the fun things our Wotja app allows is the use of text to generate seed patterns; we call this text-to-music . Anyone can be creative with text. Although the resulting melody is still created by computer you are directly keying it or imbuing it with a personal connection. It becomes reflective music . You can personalise your Wotja mix with an image, too, but that is more akin to adding an album cover.

 Finally, the act of customising or even designing a generative composition is very much a creative act. A generative system like Wotja is a kind of multi-layered musical instrument. It can autogenerate mixes from templates so you do not need to be a musician to create something with it. Wotja rewards curiousity, however, and exploring deeper can be both frustrating and exhilarating in equal measure. The more you work at it the more you learn. The more you learn the more skillful you get at both controlling it and learning how to let go. A customised generative composition is truly a unique and creative work.

 2) Not to replace musicians or creatives... 

 We are of course here referring to the use of "Artificial Intelligence" to compose music.

 Human composed music is created with set of rules, approaches, conventions. It has intrinsic meaning to at least one human being, the composer. A listener relies on that connection. They know the style and feel of the music therefore comes from somewhere, it has a soul, it has meaning. That connection gives power to the shared key that can often unlock emotions in them. It is a two way relationship in that the composer needs affirmation and feedback that the key works.

 There are many who are interested in using "Artificial Intelligence" to compose music. They would wish to be able to compose passable music "in the style of". We have no intention of taking the fork in the road to pursue Artificial Intelligence to create music "in the style of". If you are looking for something to do that you will need to look elsewhere. We are sticking to approaches that in effect allow music to created by chance.

 NB: It is true we use "AI techniques", but they are not "Intelligent" in that they don’t learn. We only use them to help constrain randomly generated music and make it sound and feel natural. Remember, too, that designing the best generative music requires great skill.

--> 

 Company Details (Intermorphic Ltd.)

 Company Name :

 Intermorphic Limited

 Registration Number :

 Registered in England No. 6045407. 

 Registered Office :

 Intermorphic Ltd., Suites B & D, Burnham Yard, London End, Beaconsfield, Bucks HP9 2JH, UK.

 VAT No: 

 GB 935 3394 09

 ICO :

 Intermorphic Ltd. is registered with the Information Commissioner's Office, with Register of Data Controller Reference: ZA034466. Visit http://ico.org.uk/ for information on data protection issues.

 Legal :

 EULAs, Terms of Use and Privacy Agreements .

 History of Intermorphic and Evolution of Wotja

 See also: What are the main differences between Noatikl / Mixtikl / Liptikl / Tiklbox and Wotja? 

 History is important, right?
-->

 Tap for larger image 

 Wotja is actively developed by us at Intermorphic , meaning Wotja is very much alive in 2026 - hence Wotja 26 .

 Wotja has a remarkable provenance , being the consolidation and continued evolution of 1992+ SSEYO Koan , 2000-2007 intent Sound System (incl. APRE) & SSEYO miniMIXA , 2007+ Noatikl , 2007+ Liptikl , 2008+ Mixtikl & 2012+ Tiklbox .

 The importance of history

 Knowing where you came from and how you got to where you are is important. It's why people search out their family tree. It means something and it helps you understand your place in the world. It can even help give a sense of purpose and direction. 

 The history of software is no different, it's a journey. And like any long journey it can take many interesting twists and turns. And, we give huge thanks to past users who purchased, used or enjoyed any of our products, whatever they were.

 1986: The Initial Idea

 Way back in 1986 we had an idea, an idea that set us on a journey that we are still on today with Wotja.

 1990: SSEYO - SSEYO Koan

 It took us until 1990 before we felt ready to set up a company, SSEYO , to pursue our idea. Noatikl Music Engine 3 (NME 3) and then that, in turn, evolved into the Wotja Music Engine (WME) , all again developed by us.-->

 SSEYO Koan is still with us, Tim Cole and Pete Cole, at Intermorphic ! For full details see: SSEYO Koan 

 It was at SSEYO in 1990 that we started work on SSEYO Koan and the SSEYO Koan Music Engine (SKME), our first real-time music generation engine.

 We sent out the first betas of SSEYO Koan branded apps in 1992 .

 In 1994 we published our first publicly released app SSEYO Koan Plus .

 Note : SSEYO Koan Plus generated what we referred to at the time as "Koan Music". The genre later became better known as " generative music ", a term coined by Brian Eno during the time he was working with SSEYO Koan Pro, below. 25+ years later SSEYO Koan would go on to become what is now called Wotja .

 At about the time in 1995 as we were readying for release the SSEYO Koan Pro V1.0 authoring system, we were lucky enough to bring it to the attention of Brian Eno.

 By the autumn of 1995 Eno had started working with SSEYO Koan Pro culminating in the 1996 release of " Generative Music 1 with SSEYO Koan Software ".

 Luckily for researchers, Eno's early relationship with SSEYO Koan and Intermorphic co-founder Tim Cole was captured and published in his 1995 diary " A Year with Swollen Appendices ".

 SSEYO Koan Pro was used by other talented generative artists such as Timothy Didmyus , Mark Harrop, Jamuud and Andrew Garton.

 Prior to 2002 when it was acquired by Tao Group, SSEYO developed a number of other Koan products and won a BAFTA award . After acquisition amongst other things it developed 'SSEYO miniMIXA', one of the first native mobile music making apps for use on Smartphones, and won another BAFTA award .

 Tao Group went into administration in 2007 .

 See also: 
 
 Key SSEYO and Koan History 

 SSEYO Before Tao Acquisition 

 SSEYO after Tao Acquisition 

 2007: Intermorphic - Tikltech Apps & Engines

 In 2007 (the same year that saw the demise of Tao Group, referenced above) we co-founded Intermorphic . We did so to carry on our work with generative music systems. Intermorphic owns all past SSEYO IP .

 This marked the second stage of our evolution and lasted 10 years. Amongst other things it involved a clean-room rebuild of the Koan Music Engine which could load/play SSEYO Koan files.

 We decided for a number of reasons to adopt a new branding and thus was born the Noatikl Music Engine . We also created two other engines, a Text engine (Liptikl) and the Partikl Sound Engine , a new sound engine.

 These engines were at the heart of a number of our tikl-branded apps whose history is also captured on the Intermorphic.com website. They include: Noatikl , Mixtikl , Liptikl and Tiklbox .

 2014: Intermorphic - Wotja

 We started experimenting with "Text to Music" in 2013 and thought it was interesting. By 2014 we were ready to try it out in a new app, Wotja , an App that we continue to evolve today in 2026 .

 Wotja 1 in 2014 was the first release and by Wotja 4 in 2017 we had started the inexorable process of consolidating into it the Noatikl , Mixtikl , Liptikl & Tiklbox Apps.

 For more on Wotja's history and the thinking behind Reflective Music (one of the terms we use to describe the output of Wotja), read Ashley Elsdon's in depth PalmSounds interview with Tim Cole .

 See the Wotja page and Wotja User Guide for more information about the latest version of Wotja!

 Tip : The documentation and history of Wotja from 2014-2022 is to be found in the App archive on Intermorphic.com . Everything related to Wotja from 2023 onwards (i.e. Wotja 23+) can be found on the wotja.com website.

 A bit more on the Wotja app consolidations... 

 Historical Recap

 We started working on generative music apps way back in the 1990s. Our first app was SSEYO Koan , released in 1992. That was followed by Noatikl [itself the evolution of SSEYO Koan], Liptikl , Mixtikl , Tiklbox and 2016 and earlier Wotja apps. However, by 2016 we realized that to be able to keep moving forward we had to consolidate the capabilities of all of these into just one powerful Generative Music System app. We decided that Wotja was the best app to take it all forward. Here is how that consolidation went.

 Wotja A

 In 2017 we completed the first round of our 'app consolidation' for the iOS/macOS versions of our apps, therefore Wotja at that time was 'Apple-only'. To keep things simple our docs referred to this original Apple-only 'variant' as ' Wotja A ' (NB: On the App Store it was still called 'Wotja' and had the foregoing icon).

 Wotja X

 For 2018 we developed a new cross-platform UI variant (i.e. 'X') called ' Wotja X ' which had the foregoing icon.

 Wotja V5

 By the time of Wotja V5.4 the two variants ('Wotja A', 'Wotja X') were major feature equivalent and so we referred to both as just 'Wotja' and they had one User Guide. See Wotja 5 User Guide and Wotja 5 Info page that was common to both.

 Wotja V19

 By 2019 there was just one Wotja variant but with different app versions (see Wotja 19 ). These versions all used the X-platform UI approach we developed for 'Wotja X'. It was at this time we changed our Wotja version numbering system to be one that reflects the year of release, i.e. in 2019 we had Wotja V19, keeping it simpler for all!

 Wotja V20

 2020 saw the start of a whole new and exciting Wotja product cycle where we were finally able to consolidate our Wotja app product range into just 2 apps per OS platform (yay!). These included the TV player apps as relevant (iOS, Android) and we also added an all new Apple Watch app (iOS). See Wotja 20 .

 Our Trademarks

 Intermorphic, Wotja, Wotja Music/Audio/Text/Script Engine, Wotja Pak, Noatikl, Mixtikl, Liptikl, Partikl, Tiklbox and their corresponding logos are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Intermorphic Ltd. in the UK and/or other countries. Other products mentioned may be trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies and are the sole property of their respective manufacturers. WOTJA is a registered trademark nos: EU 012329199, US 4702614. The Device is a registered trademark nos: EU 017082496, US 5511542. 

 Our Branding

 Our primary brands are now Intermorphic and Wotja. 

 A bit of background

 Back in 2007 we carefully chose our company name and settled on Intermorphic as intermorphic means "between forms". Besides, it also provided a link to our SSEYO past as we had used that term then, too.

 We knew right from the start that we were going to build a new generative music engine which would work like the SSEYO Koan Music Engine in that its live note composition output would change "shape" to mold to / integrate / accommodate various inputs, be these external or other internal. One of the ways we saw it was as a kind of dynamic note lattice (a lattice is a regular structure that has "shape") so this is where our term kinetic lattice comes from - a "Kinetic Lattice" is always "between forms" so is perpetually intermorphic.

 However, for a number of reasons we decided our first app was instead going to be a lyric generator ☺. As it is often handy to look at things from a different or "elliptical" perspective we decided our first app brand should be "Liptikl".

 A the same time we were working on the brand for our upcoming generative music engine. We wanted a brand that could have a nod towards Koan, which is how we then came up with Noa ti k l. Even better that "Tikl" was a perfect abbreviation for T he I ntermorphic K inetic L attice.

 It all turned out that this letter-play was quite serendipitous as it allowed us to refer to our underlying basket of technologies and frameworks as The Intermorphic Kinetic Lattice Technologies or "TIKLTECH" / "Tikltech" ( T he I ntermorphic K inetic L attice TECH nologies). A perfect wrap up!

 Of course, we knew that when it comes to branding taxonomy the normal practice is for the common part of a brand (i.e. a stem) to be first, or to prefix other common words (e.g. Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel etc.). However, we have always been a bit different, and so we decided at the time it was OK to go with an appended product stem, "Tikl", as it also allowed our engine / tool product brands of the day to stand on their own two feet, independent of the main company brand. See our archive page for links to archive material on our "Tiklapps".

 Nothing stands still and we continue to keep innovating so in 2016 we came to the conclusion it was time to take the bold step to try to fold all our music apps into one. Intermorphic had over the years become quite a strong brand in its own right and we had already established a great, fresh, non-technical music app brand in the form of Wotja.

 It was therefore obvious what brands to choose for the next stage of our journey - Intermorphic for our engines and Wotja for our app.

 Our Websites

 Layout for wotja.com and intermorphic.com (Bootstrap Docs)

 As a general template for our website layout we use the "Bootstrap Docs" layout ( https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.1/getting-started/introduction/) .

 * Bootstrap Docs 

 * Copyright 2011-2021 The Bootstrap Authors

 * Copyright 2011-2021 Twitter, Inc.

 * Licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported License .

 We are hugely grateful to the developers for making it available under CC3.0 and it is, quite frankly, awesome.

 All-in-all it means we use "Bootstrap Docs" files (docs.css and docs.min.js) as well as the "Bootstrap Docs" webpage html. We have customized some of the html, id and class names etc. and have created our own customized CSS/JS overrides (im.css and im.js). We have then added own content (html, text, images etc).

 * Bootstrap Code (v5.3.2)

 * Copyright (c) 2011-2023 The Bootstrap Authors

 * Licenced under MIT 

 * Bootstrap Icons (v1.11.1)

 * Copyright 2019-2023 The Bootstrap Authors

 * Licensed under MIT 

 Other Domains (Redirected)

 In addition to domains for our trademarked products (e.g. noatikl.com , partikl.com , mixtikl.com , liptikl.com and tiklbox.com etc.), and as we've been active in the area of generative music for ages [since 1990 effectively], we also own a number of other domains including the following: generativemusic.net , generativemusic.co.uk , reflectivemusic.com , peaceablemusic.com , wotjamusic.com , text-to-music.com , mymindfulmusic.com and inmomusic.com .

 Credits

 Intermorphic is Tim Cole & Pete Cole - yes, just two brothers - and we have now been working together in generative music since 1990. However, without the incredible support and interest from so many over the years then we would not be where we are today with our current Apps, Engines and Content. Our thank-you list below is an ever expanding one, in no particular order, and does not include everyone (sorry to those we have missed!). We offer our heartfelt thanks and gratitude as follows: 

 To our wives and beloved mum as without their generous support, quiet encouragement and long suffering patience we would never have had the strength to continue on this very long and challenging road. We are only here through their kindness.

 To the awesomely talented Mark Harrop and Timothy Didymus , longstanding friends, colleagues & artists who are also occasional advisors and contributors. When times are hard their sublime generative music creations have given us the much needed inspiration to press onwards. On many occasions we have also had the pleasure of commissioning them and what you hear is in good part down to their absolute genius - we love you dearly, thank you! 

 To our outstanding beta testers for their testing efforts and everyone who has given feedback, found bugs and helped with suggestions - we love you, thank you! 

 To all customers , and most especially those who wish to continue with us as we move forward - we love you, thank you! 

 To the generous educators, commentators and influencers who have helped others e.g. via forum posts, blogs, tweets, reviews, social media etc. or otherwise written nicely about or shared content they have made with our apps and in so doing helped others to find us - we love you, thank you! 

 And from our SSEYO days

 To early content creators such as David Muddyman (AKA Jamuud) , Andrew Garton , Paul Weir and Igor Dvorkin .

 To all our old SSEYO friends and colleagues including Jon Pettigrew, John Wilkinson, Steve Crawshaw & Chandra Modi and including from later days (1996 onwards) Jerry Leach, Paul Blampied, Jerry Swan, Nick Barefoot, Simon Robertson, Kerry-Anna Saia, Natalie Da Gama Rose, John Tenkoni and also including Jesper Bennedbaek, Wenwu Wang etc. from our Tao Group audio days.

 Finally, enormous thanks of course to Brian Eno for his support and kindness to us in the SSEYO Koan years, out of which arose his pioneering release "Generative Music 1" with SSEYO Koan Software .

 Intermorphic 
 
 Intermorphic is a brother team.

 We our customers & have a 35+ year passion for developing powerful & 'AI-free' generative music apps for creativity relaxation & expression.

 Wotja

 App 

 Get Wotja 

 Help & FAQs 

 Tutorials 

 Add-on Paks 

 Wotja Docs

 Wotja User Guide 

 Music Engine (WME) 

 Audio Engine (WAE) 

 Script Engine (WSE) 

 Wotja Pak Maker 

 News & Blog

 Latest News 

 Blog > Posts 

 Press > Releases 

 Press > Resources 

 News Archive 

 Other

 About Us 

 Contact Us 

 T-Shirts etc. 

 SSEYO Koan 

 Wotja Archive 

 © 1990-2026 Intermorphic . All rights reserved.

 Legal & EULAs 

 |

 Privacy Policy 

 |

 Terms of Use 

 |

 Sitemap
