URL: https://endel.io/about
Fetched: 2026-09-02
Method: curl
Raw bytes:    80518
----
Endel - Team 
 Endel 
 ADHD Sleep Focus Relax Activity More Try Today
 Sign In
 Menu
 About
 Endel is a sound wellness company headquartered in Berlin. Founded by a collective of imaginative developers and artists, Endel is democratizing wellness by making it accessible to all. Endel runs a cross-platform ecosystem of AI-powered apps that create personalized, functional soundscapes to help people focus, relax, and sleep. Endel’s patented technology takes inputs from the user's movement, time of day, weather, heart rate, location, and other factors. It then uses AI to generate personalized soundscapes that adapt to changes in real-time.
 Endel is available on iOS, Android, Mac, Amazon Alexa, wearables, Apple TV, and as album releases on streaming platforms. The ecosystem has over 1 million active users monthly, and they listen to a million and a half hours a month. Endel partnered with Mercedes-Benz Group Research, All Nippon Airways, Nura, Oura, and others.
 In 2020, Endel became the Apple Watch App of the Year and recently received a Google Play Best of 2021 award.
 Investors and Partners
 Amazon Alexa Fund
 VC funding for voice tech innovation
 Avex Group
 Japanese entertainment giant
 Chris Leacock
 Jillionaire, Major Lazer
 Kima Ventures
 International Angel investment firm
 La Fleur
 World-famous DJ
 Plus Eight Equity Partners
 Advisors include DJs Richie Hawtin and Pete Tong
 Supermoon Capital
 Specialist platform helping visionary founders
 Target Global
 Venture capital firm headquartered in Berlin
 Techstars Music
 Accelerator program supported by global music business
 True Ventures
 Silicon Valley-based venture capital firm
 Waverley Capital
 The Leader in Media Focused Venture Capital
 Powerhouse Capital
 Global Media & Technology VC powered by Los Angeles
 Explore
 ADHD Focus Sleep Relax Activity 
 Technology
 Science Technology Streaming Soundscapes 
 About
 Team Manifesto Newsroom Community Blog Merch 
 Offers
 Endel for Students Endel for Teams Gift Endel 
 Download Endel
 Endel for iOS Endel for Android Endel for Alexa Endel for Mac Endel for Web Endel for Windows 
 Endel Newsletter
 Subscribe to be first to hear about new soundscapes and features. Read stories about the Endel world and its people. Plus, life-enhancing, science-backed tips and advice.
 E-mail Subscribe
 Endel © 2026 Privacy Policy Impressum Support
