URL: https://www.ableton.com/en/blog/take-chance-producing-probability-live-11/
Fetched: 2026-09-05
---
Take a Chance: Producing with Probability in Live 11
 | Ableton 
 Close Dialog 
 Menu Menu Live 
 Push 
 Move 
 Note 
 Link 
 Shop 
 Packs 
 Help 
 More 
 Try Live 12 for free 
 Log in or register 
 More on Ableton.com:
 Blog 
 Ableton for the Classroom 
 Ableton for Colleges and Universities 
 Certified Training 
 About Ableton 
 Jobs 
 Apprenticeships 
 More from Ableton:
 Ableton Learn
 Start making music with beginner-friendly lessons and sounds from experienced artists.
 Learning Synths
 Get started with synthesis using a web-based synth and accompanying lessons.
 Making Music
 Some tips from 74 Creative Strategies for Electronic Producers.
 All posts 
 Artists 
 News 
 Downloads 
 Tutorials 
 Videos 
 Loop 
 One Thing 
 Podcasts 
 Tutorials – View posts in category: Tutorials Take a Chance: Producing with Probability in Live 11
 Tags:  
 Experimental – View posts with tag: Experimental ,  
 Composition – View posts with tag: Composition ,  
 Generative – View posts with tag: Generative ,  
 Live 11 – View posts with tag: Live 11 ,  
 Chance – View posts with tag: Chance 
 When singer, composer and producer Mica Levi was tasked with creating the soundtrack for Jonathan Glazer’s alien femme fatale flick Under the Skin , she looked to John Cage and Karlheinz Stockhausen for some ideas on how to evoke the sound of a living, growing, unknown organism. 
 “[it’s] supposed to be unpredictable, alive and undecipherable. It is controlled in a sense, but it is aleatoric... as long as you solidify the base, you’re then leaving things to chance – and leaving the possibility for catastrophe and anarchy is kind of ideal. I love that.”
 It makes sense to work with chance and welcome in erratic and irregular sounds when you’re creating the sonic world of an extraterrestrial being. But many producers work with chance and probability for more earthly reasons – to invite happy accidents, to add variation to repetitive parts, or to decide on the structure of a piece of music. To weave chance into your workflow you can take your cue from the composers and producers who have rolled the dice before you, and you can lose some control with Live 11’s new probabilistic features.
 Leaving composition to chance
 In the classical realm, music with elements left to chance is known as aleatoric, from ‘alea’ – the Latin word for dice. Musical dice games were a popular parlor entertainment for pianists at the end of the 18th century – they came with sheet music, and the sections to be played were determined by rolls of the dice. Mozart is said to have thrown dice to decide on the order of sections in a minuet, and is attributed as the creator of one of the most famous musical dice games, though it wasn’t published until after his death. 
 Mozart might have dabbled, but the first western composer to put chance and indeterminacy at the center of his practice was John Cage. For Cage, aleatoric music wasn't just a gimmick, but an essential tool for getting the composer's ego out of the way – a way to generate results he would never have chosen himself, in both composition and performance. One of Cage’s key chance compositional methods was to consult the I Ching – an ancient Chinese divination text. The method of interpretation he devised would decide on the piece’s tempo/s, which notes to use, their duration and dynamics. This was the process used to compose Music of Changes (1951) among other works. 
 One of Cage’s most famous pieces, 4’33 , is an example of chance at the level of performance. The musicians spend 4 minutes and 33 seconds not playing their instruments, so the focus is the ambient sound in and around the performance space, as listeners’ hearing is heightened by the silence on stage. Other examples of Cage leaving performance to chance include works for radios, scores that invite the performer to decide on the rhythm and volume of the notes they play, and pieces written with graphic notation that could be interpreted any number of ways. 
 Generative sounds
 Some artists use chance by creating a system to generate sound and then taking their hands off the wheel. One such system uses unsynced tape loops of different lengths, as in Brian Eno’s “2/1”. The loops will always meet at different points, creating an endlessly evolving soundscape. Eno’s generative criteria was that the music must change continuously and never repeat itself, and that it could last forever if left to its devices. Of course, the way music is distributed confined him to releasing recorded sections of his generated ambiences, rather than the generative system itself. 
 Chance doesn’t have to dictate every aspect of a piece – its influence can be much more subtle. Herbie Hancock’s “Rain Dance”, from his 1973 album Sextant , is built over a series of irregular bloops generated by a Random Resonator device created by audio engineer and designer Jim Cooper. Hancock recorded the Random Resonator onto tape, then listened back and found a section that sounded like it had some patterns. That section was made into a minute-long tape loop that wound its way around the studio, using ashtrays and staplers as tension points before feeding back into the machine. The synthesized droplets captured in the loop set the astral mood of the track and provided a foundation for the band to improvise over, pushing the players in directions they otherwise wouldn’t have explored.
 Argentine singer, songwriter and Loop 2018 participant Juana Molina used a similar randomized sound in her 2013 track “El Oso De La Guarda” – though completely accidentally, and in this case it provides release, rather than a foundation for other ideas. At the end of the song a series of irregular synth notes plays, accompanied by ghostly creaks. This was a sound Molina had created for other purposes, years before – a note was programmed to repeat randomly, with unpredictable lengths and intervals. She triggered it accidentally during the recording session and decided to leave it in there.
 Chatter and glitches
 Digital experiments with probabilistic music were initially an academic pursuit. American composer Paul Lansky’s Chatter computer music trilogy was created between 1985 and 1988, and the first piece, “Idle Chatter”, was made on an IBM 3081 mainframe computer system that took up a whole room. The three pieces were all created by chopping up a recording of Hannah McKay reading a poem, and arbitrarily rearranging the snippets of spoken word to obfuscate the meaning. The results are constantly shifting, and hinting at the natural rhythms of human speech, but never quite becoming clear.
 While music like Lansky’s Chatter series explores the capabilities of digital mediums, glitch music makes art of their mistakes. Glitch celebrates sonic artifacts and digital misfires, and producers often use chance-based methods to encourage these happy accidents. The German electronic outfit Oval’s 1995 album 94diskont was created by drawing on CDs with a marker to encourage them to skip, then sampling the results. It was totally unpredictable which parts of the CD would skip, and what the rhythm of the skips would be. The result is eerily beautiful, with jittering rhythms and textures that sound as oceanic as they do technological. 
 Handing over the reins
 The impetus for Live 11’s inclusion of probabilistic features is humanization as much as it is experimentation. Part of the beauty of recording a live drummer is the subtle movement in their playing – the strength of each hit is slightly different, timing moves slightly, or sometimes they’ll even skip a hit. These small changes feel human, and it’s the reason programmed beats can sound stiff and robotic. Live 11 includes ways to quickly add in variation and humanize your beats using chance. 
 You can now set a velocity range on MIDI notes. This allows you to randomize velocity within a given range each time a note is played. It’s particularly useful for injecting some life into repetitive parts such as hi-hats. To take the unpredictability a step further, use the note chance feature to set the likelihood that the note will play at all – for example, set the chance at 50% for half/half odds that the note will play. When you set velocity ranges or note chance on looped parts, they’ll change with each play for a beat that keeps your ears interested.
 Using velocity range and note chance to create a beat with variation
 Note chance is also useful for creating melodic parts that vary on each loop to create interest. It’s especially good for creating a natural, droplet-style sparseness out of busy, higher-pitched melodies – think arpeggiated bell tones or clusters of synthesized pings. 
 Creating a varying melodic loop using velocity range and note chance
 You can use this method to create probabilistic chord progressions by selecting a pad or key chord sound, then adjust the chance on one, a few, or all of the chords. Experiment to see which chords sound best dropping in and out, and how frequently – lower chance on all your chords can sound less like a steady chord progression, and more like occasional flavor, while higher chance on a chord or two can act as more subtle changes to a solid harmonic base for your song.
 Adding variation to a chord progression using velocity range and note chance
 If you’d like to take a leaf out of Paul Lansky’s book, try experimenting with probability on samples of voices. Take a spoken or sung vocal sample and slice it up in a Simpler, then arrange the chopped parts in a MIDI clip and lower the chance on each slice. A single choppy vocal line makes for tasty ear candy in house tracks, or it can be an exciting way to remix a lead vocal in a poppier tune, but to really create a Chatter-esque cacophony of voice snippets try adding a few layers of probabilistic spoken voices. 
 Using the velocity range and note chance features on chopped vocal samples
 Using this chance-enhanced sliced Simpler method on instrumental samples is one way to encourage glitchy happy accidents. Try playing with different slice lengths, adding different effects and resampling while you tweak the parameters to come up with digitally alien variations on a theme. 
 Random arrangements
 It’s easy to fall into habits with the arrangements of your productions and end up with a bunch of tracks with similar structures. Using methods of randomization can help you to come up with arrangement ideas that you otherwise wouldn’t consider. Just as Mozart used to throw dice to come up with structural ideas, Live 11 now allows you to set scene Follow Actions. To come up with a completely random arrangement of your parts, set all your scenes’ Follow Actions to “Other” and start recording into Arrangement View. Then listen back to the arrangement Live has created for you, choose the transitions you like best and create the rest of your track around them.
 Generating a random arrangement with scene Follow Actions
 To go all out on chance and probability use all the tools at your disposal at once – just let Live drive! Create a collection of clips that make use of note chance and velocity, and set Follow Actions on both the clips and the scenes. This way, you can create a generative, evolving piece of music. Including a mix of busier, fuller clips and sparser (or even some silent) clips will encourage dynamic contrasts in your work, and you can manually adjust the amounts of probability in your clips if you ever feel you want to hear more or less of the notes in your rhythms and melodies (helpful if you’re using this in a performance setting). 
 Using scene Follow Actions will ensure your piece includes some anchor points where set clips come back together, which is great for beat-driven genres, but if you want to create generative ambient music a la Brian Eno, you might want to leave them out for a seamlessly ethereal listening experience.
 Bonus track 
 Iron Curtis discusses letting go of control by using chance and probability in the studio. 
 English subtitles can be enabled on the video player
 Plus, ELPHNT explores Live 11’s chance, probability and randomness features .
 See what’s new in Live 11 
 Text: Lani Bagley
 Posted on March 23, 2021 in Artists , 
 Tutorials 
 Tags: Experimental , 
 Composition , 
 Generative , 
 Live 11 , 
 Chance 
 Related
 View posts in category: Tutorials 
 Made in Ableton Live: Beatrice 
 View posts in category: Tutorials 
 Experimental Sound Design with Feedback Loops 
 View posts in category: Tutorials 
 PitchLoop89: What Goes Around Comes Around 
 Sign up to our newsletter 
 Enter your email address to stay up to date with the latest offers, tutorials, downloads, surveys and more.
 Register Live, Push or Move 
 About Ableton 
 Jobs 
 Education
 Offers for students and teachers 
 Ableton for the Classroom 
 Ableton for Colleges and Universities 
 Community
 Find Ableton User Groups 
 Find Certified Training 
 Become a Certified Trainer 
 Language and Location
 Language English Deutsch Français 日本語 简体中文 Español 
 Country or Region Please choose United States United Kingdom France Germany Canada Japan China Australia Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua And Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia And Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Congo, The Democratic Republic Of The Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote D'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Curacao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island And McDonald Islands Honduras Hong Kong SAR, China Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran (Islamic Republic Of) Iraq Ireland Isle Of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea, Democratic People's Republic Korea, Republic Of Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao SAR, China Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia, Federated States Of Moldova, Republic Of Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island North Macedonia, Republic of Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Helena Saint Kitts And Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin (French Part) Saint Pierre And Miquelon Saint Vincent And The Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome And Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia And The South Sandwich Islands South Sudan Spain Canary Islands (Spain) Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard And Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic Of Territory of the French Southern and Antarctic Lands Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad And Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks And Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vatican City State (Holy See) Venezuela Viet Nam Virgin Islands (British) Virgin Islands (U.S.) Wallis And Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe 
 Contact Us Press Resources Legal Info Corporate Information Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Imprint Withdraw from Contract 
 Made in Berlin
