URL: https://www.soundonsound.com/techniques/modulation
Fetched: 2026-09-05
---
Modulation 
 Skip to main content 
 Log in 
 Register 
 Subscribe 
 Shop 
 Help 
 0 
 items 
 Search 
 SOUND ON SOUND 
 Home SOS For Artists 
 Advertise 
 Information 
 Readers' Ads 
 Competitions 
 Videos 
 Podcasts 
 Case Studies 
 eBooks 
 News Latest 
 All News 
 Search 
 Podcasts 
 Case Studies 
 Readers Ads 
 Forum Latest Posts 
 Search 
 SOS For Artists 
 Readers Ads 
 FAQ 
 Glossary 
 Rules 
 Magazine Latest issue 
 All issues 
 Publication Dates 
 Subscribe 
 Advertise 
 Write for SOS 
 Search 
 Reviews Articles 
 Search 
 Podcasts 
 Glossary 
 Case Studies 
 Techniques Articles 
 Series 
 Search 
 Podcasts 
 Glossary 
 Case Studies 
 People Articles 
 Search 
 Podcasts 
 Glossary 
 Case Studies 
 Sound Advice Articles 
 Search 
 Podcasts 
 Glossary 
 Case Studies 
 Music Business Articles 
 Search 
 Podcasts 
 Glossary 
 Case Studies 
 Set us as a Google preferred source preferred 
 facebook 
 twitter 
 email 
 print 
 You are here
 Home 
 Techniques 
 Modulation
 Synth Secrets 
 Synthesizers > Synth Secrets , Synthesis / Sound Design 
 By Gordon Reid 
 Published February 2000 
 In this month's instalment of his series on the basics of subtractive synthesis, Gordon Reid considers the magic ingredient that makes all the other elements sound interesting...
 In the first nine episodes of Synth Secrets, we've covered a lot of ground. We have discussed waveforms, filters, envelopes, triggering and gating — surely we are now ready to create some killer synth sounds? No? What's missing? With the knowledge we now have, we can select our waveform, modify it using all manner of powerful filters, and apply envelopes to give the result life and dynamics. But this still isn't enough. Despite the contouring applied to the VCFs and VCAs, there is no movement within the sound: it still sounds like a 'beep' of some sort.
 The missing element is modulation , the trick that makes sounds live and breathe in an organic sort of way. If you think that this simply means using an LFO to add a bit of vibrato, think again. Modulation is undoubtedly the most involved (and involving) subject in all of synthesis. Nevertheless, if we are going to graduate on to the more complex aspects of the subject, we're going to have to exercise some discipline. This means that, at first, we must confine ourselves to a discussion of the simplest forms of cyclic modulation.
 1: Three Simple Modulations 
 Figure 1: [top] A simple synthesizer. Figure 2: [bottom] Applying this control voltage to the oscillator frequency would result in a short burst of vibrato. Figure 1 combines the most important sonic elements from Parts 1 to 9 of this series, connected into a simple but usable synthesizer configuration. As you can see, the signal source is a tone generator of some sort (an oscillator). The output from this first passes through a filter, and then an amplifier before reaching the outside world. The contour generators 'shape' the sound by causing the filter and amplifier to affect the brightness and loudness of the sound at the second and third stages, respectively. (For clarity, I have shown audio signals with bold arrows, and control signals with lighter ones. For the same reason, I have also omitted the pitch CV, Triggers and Gates.)
 Now consider someone playing a string instrument such as a violin, or a cello. As you know, the position at which the player presses the string on to the neck of the instrument determines the pitch of the note that's produced. The shorter the effective length of the string, the higher the pitch of the note. Now picture that person playing, and you will see that he (no sexism intended) often rocks his fingers backwards and forwards on the neck. This shortens and lengthens the string by a small amount each time he moves his hand (he is also changing the tension by a tiny amount, but we need not worry about that). This change, in the effective length raises and lowers the pitch slightly, resulting in vibrato. Figure 2 is a simplified representation of the way a short burst of vibrato modifies the pitch of an otherwise steady note. Likewise, Figure 3 shows — in grossly exaggerated form — the change in a waveform during a period of vibrato.
 Figure 3: [top] The effect of vibrato on a triangle wave. Figure 4: [bottom] Adding vibrato to our simple synthesizer. Reproducing this effect on an analogue synth, albeit in a rather unsubtle manner, is easy, and I am sure that most of you will be way ahead of me here. You simply apply a control voltage to the oscillator in such a way that it raises and lowers the pitch slightly.
 If you look at the block diagram in Figure 4, you will find that the CV (the modulating waveform) is supplied by a low-frequency oscillator (an LFO). You will also notice that a VCA controls the amplitude of the modulating waveform, and the VCA is itself controlled by a modulation wheel. The VCA and wheel are very important parts of this configuration because, without them, there would be no simple way to control the amount of vibrato, which would be particularly unmusical.
 Tremolo 
 Let's now move on from vibrato, and consider tremolo. These effects are frequently mistaken for one another, but the distinction is simple: whereas vibrato is a periodic change in the pitch of a sound, tremolo is a periodic change in the loudness of the sound (Figure 5). Figure 6 has the same axes as Figure 3, but the graph has quite a different shape, showing how the frequency of the note remains constant, but the level changes in time.
 [Top to bottom] Figures 5, 6, 7 and 8. Now that we understand the difference between these two effects, it is easy to see how the synthesizer differentiates between them. Whereas vibrato requires that something modulates the pitch of the oscillator, tremolo requires that something modulates the gain of the audio amplifier at the end of the signal chain. The block diagram for this looks like Figure 7.
 The third in our introductory set of effects occurs when we modulate the voltage-controlled filter in our simple synthesizer (Figure 8). The results are, perhaps, less easy to envisage than either vibrato or tremolo. Indeed, you can obtain three distinct effects simply by changing the frequency of the LFO that generates the modulation in the sound. At the slowest settings (say, about 0.1Hz) you will obtain a slow filter sweep which is very useful for ambient sounds. If you increase the speed to around 1 or 2Hz this becomes more like a wah-wah effect. If you continue to increase the speed to the upper limit of subsonic oscillations (around 10 to 20Hz) you will hear a growl, which can be superb for simulating brass instruments.
 Figure 9: [top] The effect of growl on a triangle wave.
Figure 10: Adding filter sweeps, was-wah, or growl to our simple synthesizer. The effects of this type of modulation are less easy to draw (see Figure 9 and 10), because the visible changes in the waveform caused by modulated filtering are so slight. You can hear the changes very easily (this is not a subtle effect), but you would need an oscilloscope to see that the waveform is slightly rounded off when the cutoff frequency is low, and that the amplitude drops by a small amount as the upper harmonics are attenuated.
 Of course, there is no reason why vibrato, tremolo and growl should be mutually exclusive, and a good analogue synthesizer will allow you to route the LFO to any of these destinations. A better synth will offer individual LFOs that you can assign to each destination, with the depth of each effect governed by a selection of controllers. These might include modulation wheels, aftertouch (pressure sensitivity), or foot pedals. The block diagram for this (Figure 11) may look daunting, but you will see that it breaks down into the easily understood parts shown above.
 Figure 11: [top] A simple synth with three LFOs and multiple modulation controllers.
Figure 12: [bottom] A square wave. However, it's unlikely that you will want to control the level of each of the three modulation VCAs using all three controllers simultaneously. Therefore, you should consider the lines joining the controllers to the VCAs as options. This introduces us to the switches that select between sources and destinations on most synthesizers. The decisions you make regarding these will help determine the sound your synth produces, and the ways in which you can control the modulation to make your playing more expressive.
 2: Another Simple Modulation 
 There is one more simple form of modulation that is implemented in most good analogue synthesizers. To understand this, let me take you back to a waveform I introduced when we discussed low-pass filters in Synth Secrets Part 4 (SOS August 1999). This is the square wave, so-called not because its shape is truly square, but because it is a pulse waveform that spends the same amount of time at its peak as it does at its nadir (Figure 12).
 Clearly, the square wave is a special case of the class of waveforms called pulse waves , all of which share the same 'rectangular' shape, but are different in as much as the ratio of the time the signal spends at the 'top' and 'bottom' of the wave differs. We call this ratio the 'duty cycle'. Since the square wave spends exactly half its time at the 'top' of the wave, it has a ratio of 1:2, and we say that it has a duty cycle of 50 percent. A similar wave that spends just one-third of its time 'at the top' has a duty cycle of 1:3 (33.3 percent), while one that spends a quarter of the time 'at the top' has a duty cycle of 1:4 (25 percent) — see Figures 13 and 14 below.
 Note: You will sometimes see references to duty cycles greater than 50 percent. In essence, for any number X lying between zero and 50, a duty cycle of (50+X) percent is identical to that of (50-X) percent, but the phase is inverted. For the purposes of this discussion, you need not worry about this. 
 Pulse waves with different duty cycles have quite different audible characteristics. Narrow cycles (usually in the range 5 to 10 percent) are thin and nasal, and are often used to create sounds such as oboes. As the duty cycle becomes closer to 50 percent the sound thickens considerably, but at exactly 50 percent it has a distinctively hollow character that is ideal for simulating clarinets and other 'woody' sounds. (No sniggering from our American readers, please.)
 These timbral changes are a consequence of the harmonics present in each waveform, and the amplitudes that they each possess. Fortunately, we can easily express the relationship between the duty cycle and the harmonic distribution, as follows:
 A pulse wave has the same harmonic distribution as a sawtooth wave except that, for a duty cycle of 1:n (where n is an integer) every nth harmonic is missing from the spectrum. 
 (If you need to remind yourself of the harmonic distribution of a sawtooth wave, please refer back to Synth Secrets Part 1 in SOS May 1999.)
 So, armed with this knowledge, let's consider the square wave again. This has a duty cycle of 1:2, so we can infer that every second harmonic is missing from the spectrum. Our law describing the pulse-wave relationship therefore yields a result that people often quote, but rarely understand: since every even harmonic is missing, a square wave comprises the 1st, 3rd, 5th, 7th, and other odd-numbered harmonics.
 Figure 13: [left] A pulse wave with a duty cycle of 33.3 percent. Figure 14: [right] A pulse wave with a duty cycle of 25 percent. 
 Now consider the pulse waves in Figures 13 and 14. These have duty cycles of 1:3 and 1:4 respectively. Consequently, the 33.3 percent pulse wave includes the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 5th, 7th, 8th harmonics (and so on), with every third harmonic missing, and the 25 percent pulse wave includes the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 5th, 6th, 7th, 9th, 10th harmonics (and so on), with every fourth harmonic missing.
 You may ask what happens when the duty cycle is not an exact integer ratio. For example, what happens to the harmonics in a 28.5 percent pulse wave? The answer is intuitive. Because 28.5 percent lies somewhere between the 1:3 and 1:4 duty cycles, every third harmonic is somewhat attenuated, as is every fourth, but no harmonics are completely eliminated from the signal.
 Figure 15: [top] The waveform of a pulse width modulated pulse wave. Figure 16: [bottom] Modulating the pulse width using an LFO. OK, are you completely happy with these concepts? Good, because now we're going to combine our knowledge of pulse widths and modulation to create... Pulse Width Modulation. This uses a second CV input to the oscillator which, instead of modulating the frequency, allows you to modulate the duty cycle of the pulse wave oscillation. If an LFO provides the modulating CV, the resulting waveform looks like Figure 15. The synth configuration that creates this is shown in Figure 16.
 The configuration in Figure 16 is very common, and creates the lush 'chorused' sounds that make many analogue synthesizers so desirable. Although Pulse Width Modulation is usually applied to pulse waves, there are a handful of synths that allow you to apply it to sawtooth waves. Of course, you can't describe this in terms of duty cycles, and calling the modulation Pulse Width Modulation is somewhat misleading. Nevertheless, those synths that offer it (such as the Roland Alpha Junos) provide yet another range of subtly different timbres.
 Pulse Width Modulation is ideal for creating string ensemble sounds, as well as rich lead synth patches. But be careful to avoid confusing it with the many chorus effects units that you can buy, or with the chorus effects built into some synthesizers. These devices split the final signal produced by the instrument into two parts, and then use delay and modulation processes to create their effects. Pulse Width Modulation is quite different, modulating the amplitudes of the individual harmonics at their source, and producing a unique range of sounds.
 3: From Subsonic To Audio Frequencies 
 All the forms of modulation that we have discussed this month have one thing in common: they use low-frequency oscillators as the source of the modulating control voltages. This is perfectly valid, and the simplified synth configurations shown above provide most of the 'expression' in synth performances. But you may ask yourself what happens when we modulate the oscillator, filter and amplifier (or even the pulse width) using audio-frequency (AF) signals? At first, you might think that we would hear very rapid vibrato, tremolo, growl, or Pulse Width Modulation, but you would be wrong. Modulating audio frequencies with audio frequencies creates a completely different set of effects, some of which lead directly to a powerful form of digital synthesis. But that will have to wait until next month, when we'll really start to stretch some synth boundaries...
 Find ALL Synth Secrets Parts 
 Previous article Next article 
 In this Series 
 What's In A Sound? 
 The Physics Of Percussion 
 Modifiers & Controllers 
 Of Filters & Phase Relationships 
 Further With Filters 
 Of Responses & Resonance 
 Envelopes, Gates & Triggers 
 More About Envelopes 
 An Introduction To VCAs 
 Modulation
 Amplitude Modulation 
 An Introduction To Frequency Modulation 
 More On Frequency Modulation 
 An Introduction To Additive Synthesis 
 An Introduction To ESPs & Vocoders 
 From Sample & Hold To Sample-rate Converters (1) 
 From Sample & Hold To Sample-rate Converters (2) 
 Priorities & Triggers 
 Duophony 
 Introducing Polyphony 
 From Polyphony To Digital Synths 
 From Springs, Plates & Buckets To Physical Modelling 
 Formant Synthesis 
 Synthesizing Wind Instruments 
 Synthesizing Brass Instruments 
 Brass Synthesis On A Minimoog 
 Roland SH101 & ARP Axxe Brass Synthesis 
 Synthesizing Plucked Strings 
 The Theoretical Acoustic Guitar Patch 
 A Final Attempt To Synthesize Guitars 
 Synthesizing Percussion 
 Practical Percussion Synthesis: Timpani 
 Synthesizing Drums: The Bass Drum 
 Practical Bass Drum Synthesis 
 Synthesizing Drums: The Snare Drum 
 Practical Snare Drum Synthesis 
 Analysing Metallic Percussion 
 Synthesizing Realistic Cymbals 
 Practical Cymbal Synthesis 
 Synthesizing Bells 
 Synthesizing Cowbells & Claves 
 Synthesizing Pianos 
 Synthesizing Acoustic Pianos On The Roland JX10 [Part 1] 
 Synthesizing Acoustic Pianos On The Roland JX10 [Part 2] 
 Synthesizing Acoustic Pianos On The Roland JX10 [Part 3] 
 Synthesizing Strings: String Machines 
 Synthesizing Strings: PWM & String Sounds 
 Synthesizing Bowed Strings: The Violin Family 
 Practical Bowed-string Synthesis 
 Practical Bowed-string Synthesis (continued) 
 Articulation & Bowed-string Synthesis 
 Synthesizing Pan Pipes 
 Synthesizing Simple Flutes 
 Practical Flute Synthesis 
 Synthesizing Tonewheel Organs: Part 1 
 Synthesizing Tonewheel Organs: Part 2 
 Synthesizing Hammond Organ Effects 
 Synthesizing The Rest Of The Hammond Organ: Part 1 
 Synthesizing The Rest Of The Hammond Organ: Part 2 
 From Analogue To Digital Effects 
 Creative Synthesis With Delays 
 More Creative Synthesis With Delays 
 The Secret Of The Big Red Button 
 SOS Competitions 
 Readers' Ads 
 View all ads 
 Create free ad 
 On the same subject 
 The Secret Of The Big Red Button July 2004 
 More Creative Synthesis With Delays June 2004 
 Creative Synthesis With Delays May 2004 
 From Analogue To Digital Effects April 2004 
 Synthesizing The Rest Of The Hammond Organ: Part 2 March 2004 
 From the same manufacturer 
 Roland TD516 June 2026 
 How I Got That Sound: Steve Rothery December 2025 
 Roland TR-1000 December 2025 
 Inside Track: Loyle Carner 'hopefully!' September 2025 
 Roland V-Stage 76 May 2025 
 Sign Up TO
 SOS Newsletters 
 Latest SOS Videos 
 Designing The Focusrite ISA C8X Audio Interface 
 GearExpo UK 2026 
 Trinnov NOVA User Report - PresentDayProduction 
 New forum posts 
 Re: Hammond XK-7 just landed 
 Scramble > 
 05 Sep 2026, 00:35 Keyboards+Synthesizers 
 Re: Mixing styles 
 Philbo King > 
 04 Sep 2026, 23:34 Recording: Gear+Techniques 
 Re: I built a simple audio QC tool — might be useful for checking files before delivery? 
 Philbo King > 
 04 Sep 2026, 23:02 Mixing | Mastering | Post Production 
 Re: Memory lane - JV-1080 
 ajay_m > 
 04 Sep 2026, 21:08 Keyboards+Synthesizers 
 Re: Memory lane - JV-1080 
 jaminem > 
 04 Sep 2026, 20:07 Keyboards+Synthesizers 
 Active topics 
 I built a simple audio QC tool — might be useful for checking files before delivery? 
 Memory lane - JV-1080 
 Buy a kalimba for some home-studio texture, what kind of budget should I expect? 
 Gain staging 
 CD Authoring Application for MacOS 
 Mixing styles 
 Don't order from Red5 Audio 
 USB storage drive no longer reads - help! 
 My Summer 2026 synth recap 
 How can we search our past posts? 
 Recently active forums 
 Recording: Gear+Techniques 
 Mixing | Mastering | Post Production 
 Keyboards+Synthesizers 
 Guitar Technology 
 NEW PRODUCTS [Paid Posts Only] 
 Windows Music 
 Mac Music 
 Apps | Other Computers/OS 
 Live Sound | Performance 
 DIY | Electronics | Studio Design 
 Music Business 
 Music Theory | Songwriting | Composition 
 User Reviews 
 Remote Collaboration 
 Self-Promotion 
 Feedback 
 SOS Support Forum 
 Login 
 You may login with either your assigned username or your e-mail address.
 The password field is case sensitive.
 Request new password 
 Create an account 
 About 
 Contact Us 
 Cookie Policy 
 Help 
 Privacy Policy 
 Terms of Use 
 All contents copyright © SOS Publications Group and/or its licensors, 1985-2026. All rights reserved.
 The contents of this article are subject to worldwide copyright protection and reproduction in whole or part, whether mechanical or electronic, is expressly forbidden without the prior written consent of the Publishers. Great care has been taken to ensure accuracy in the preparation of this article but neither Sound On Sound Limited nor the publishers can be held responsible for its contents. The views expressed are those of the contributors and not necessarily those of the publishers.
 Web site designed & maintained by PB Associates & SOS
