URL: https://www.musicradar.com/how-to/how-to-create-evolving-ambient-pads-with-oscillator-stacking
Fetched: 2026-09-05
---
How to create evolving ambient pads with oscillator stacking | MusicRadar 

 Skip to main content 

 Get the MusicRadar Newsletter 
 Want all the hottest music and gear news, reviews, deals, features and more, direct to your inbox? Sign up here. 

Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands

Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors

By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.

 You are now subscribed 
 Your newsletter sign-up was successful 

 An account already exists for this email address, please log in. 

 How to create evolving ambient pads with oscillator stacking 

Tuition

By
 Future Music 

Published

22 June 2017

 By layering multiple oscillators and modulating each at a slow rate, you can quickly generate blissful ambience… 

When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works .

Share 

Copy link

Facebook

X

Whatsapp

Pinterest

Flipboard

Email

Share this article

Join the conversation

Follow us

Add us as a preferred source on Google

Newsletter

Subscribe to our newsletter

 The key to working real size, density and motion into any synthesised pad sound lies in oscillator layering and modulation. By stacking multiple source signals, the tonal range of a patch becomes expansive and frequency-rich, while getting those oscillators moving independently imbues the whole sound with movement and dynamism. In this tutorial, we'll show you how to build a rich, evocative ambient texture using one of the most stackable synths around: VPS Avenger. Latest Videos From MusicRadar Watch full video here: For many more power synth programming walkthroughs, get hold of the May edition of Future Music . 

 Step 1: Many modern synths let you pile up multiple oscillators, combine synthesis types and dial in uber-thick unison features. To demonstrate, we’ll create a complex ambient pad with Vengeance-Sound’s insanely powerful VPS Avenger. We start by triggering the synth with a basic C minor triad. 

 You may like

 How to use reverb to build impressive-sounding filters, reverses, risers and pads 

 How to emulate one of Jon Hopkins' signature sonic techniques with plugins 

 How to replicate the sample-based sonics of a gnarly Prodigy classic 

 Step 2: Let’s set up the first oscillator as the core evolving element of the pad. After dialling in some ultra-thick five-voice unison detune, we audition the synth’s wavetable oscillators, settling on an organ-style wavetable. A free-running LFO is used to modulate the wavetable index for a constantly evolving timbre. 

 Step 3: Next, a contrasting wavetable type is called up as the second oscillator. A different free-running LFO - this time set to a more jagged curve shape - slowly modulates this oscillator’s wavetable index. The same LFO also modulates this oscillator’s level for more motion. Get the MusicRadar Newsletter Want all the hottest music and gear news, reviews, deals, features and more, direct to your inbox? Sign up here. Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors 

 Step 4: A third, sine wave oscillator is then used to provide basic solidity and consistency in the low-mids. After that, we program a fourth wavetable oscillator via the synth’s tempo-synced step sequencer, to provide a rhythmic ‘blip’ pattern that rides above the floatier elements. 

 Step 5: Let’s add further movement. The jagged LFO from Step 3 is used to modulate the sequenced oscillator’s FM amount, which gently morphs the rhythmic blips in and out of a state of inharmonic noise for added high-end texture. The same LFO also subtly wobbles the overdriven low-pass filter cutoff. 

 Step 6: Finally, we call upon Avenger’s plentiful effects for a splash of character: the Vinylizer module mixes in vinyl crackle and noise; Chorus adds swimming width; a Bitcrusher fades in treble fuzz and grit; and some ping-pong Delay injects ambience and lush repeats. 

Future Music

 Future Music is the number one magazine for today's producers. Packed with technique and technology we'll help you make great new music. All-access artist interviews, in-depth gear reviews, essential production tutorials and much more. Every marvellous monthly edition features reliable reviews of the latest and greatest hardware and software technology and techniques, unparalleled advice, in-depth interviews, sensational free samples and so much more to improve the experience and outcome of your music-making. 

 Read more 

 Music Production Tutorials 

 How to use reverb to build impressive-sounding filters, reverses, risers and pads 

 Artists 

 How to emulate one of Jon Hopkins' signature sonic techniques with plugins 

 Artists 

 How to replicate the sample-based sonics of a gnarly Prodigy classic 

 Plugins 

 How to get recognisable pop sounds and effects using only Logic’s stock plugins 

 Artists 

 How to get Radiohead’s resonant National Anthem vocal effect in software 

 Guitars 

 Introducing Textures, the granular synth pedal from MXR that dreamy ambient tones are made of 

 Latest in Synths 

 Keyboards & Pianos 

 The 13-note Orphea is the one-octave synth and MIDI keyboard that fits in the palm of your hand 

 Artists 

 How going back to her Korg M1 demo helped Donna Lewis to create one of the biggest US hits of 1996 

 Tech 

 “Analogue is better than digital, Behringer gear is garbage and your cheap-ass monitors are ruining your mixes”: 10 of the most enduring music tech myths busted 

 Digital Synths 

 “An exceptionally accurate model of the original Prophet, with a clutch of incredibly useful enhancements”: GForce Prophet-5 review 

 Synths 

 “A fantastic-sounding instrument, with the concept of the supersaw placed at the very core of its makeup”: Native Instruments SuperStarSaw review 

 Synths 

 “A worthy successor – but unlikely to become as iconic as its predecessor”: Korg MicroKorg 2 review 

 Latest in Tuition 

 Music Theory And Songwriting 

 10 music theory tricks every producer and songwriter should know 

 Keyboards & Pianos 

 Here's everything you need to know about keyboard sizes but were afraid to ask 

 Music Production Tutorials 

 How to use a mixing console 

 Artists 

 How to get Radiohead’s resonant National Anthem vocal effect in software 

 Music Production Tutorials 

 Build your own expressive talkbox with plugins 

 Artists 

 How to emulate one of Jon Hopkins' signature sonic techniques with plugins 

 Close 

Please login or signup to comment

 Please wait... 

Login

Sign Up
